README.md, before:

# Chatter

Chat application built with a Go server and Flutter client.

A running instance is available at [http://chatter.technology/](http://chatter.technology/),
hosted on [Google Cloud Platform](https://cloud.google.com/) w/
[Google Domains](https://domains.google.com).

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/dgp1130/chatter.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/dgp1130/chatter)

## Motivation

Just having some fun with a simple project. Wanted to play around with
Go channels and this seems like a relatively straightfowarded way of
doing that. Also wanted to play around more with Flutter, can try out
their new web technical preview at the same time for the client.

## Development

To actually run the server:

### Install Dependencies

To run the project, you'll need:

* [Git](https://git-scm.com) (or you could download the zip, but who does that?)
* [Docker](https://docker.com)
* [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) with
  [Minikube](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/learning-environment/minikube/)

### Dev Dependencies

If you want to develop with an editor that understands the project, you'll
probably also want:

* [Go Lang](https://golang.org)
* [Flutter Web (technical preview)](https://github.com/flutter/flutter_web)

### Build and Start the Server

Currently the entire application is run by a single server. This is likely to
change in the future, but for now it can be run locally with:

```bash
# Clone the repo.
git clone https://github.com/dgp1130/chatter .

# Run server on port 8080.
docker build -t chatter .
docker run --rm -p 8080:80 chatter
```

### Run the entire Kubernetes service locally

This service is configured to be deployed with Kubernetes. Currently this only
consists of the one Docker image, but a larger microservice architecture is
likely to follow. The Kubernetes configuration can be tested locally by starting
up the entire service:

```bash
# Start Minikube environment.
minikube start
eval $(minikube docker-env)

# Build server.
docker build -t chatter:latest .

# Apply Kubernetes configuration to only local images.
kubectl apply -f k8s.yaml --image-pull-policy=Never

# Open app in browser.
minikube service chatter

# Stop Kubernetes.
kubectl delete service/chatter deployment.apps/chatter
minikube stop
```

### Running tests

There are `client-test` and `server-test` stages in the Docker build which represent test execution
for the two codebases. These can be run locally with:

```bash
docker build -t chatter-client-test . --target client-test && docker run --rm -it chatter-client-test
docker build -t chatter-server-test . --target server-test && docker run --rm -it chatter-server-test
```

### Local development

An editor like Visual Studio Code won't use Intellisense based on the Docker build.
You'll need to build the project locally for many editor features to work.

```bash
# Build client manually.
(cd client && webdev build)

# Test client.
# Note: This only runs non-UI tests because Flutter Web testing isn't well supported atm.
(cd client && pub run test)

# Run server manually.
go run server/server.go

# Test server.
go test ./...
```

Commit message:

Upgrading Flutter to latest version.
For some reason Flutter builds would fail locally for me (yet not on CI, which is weird because everything should be consistent with Docker).

I needed to upgrade the Flutter build to the latest version anyways because they now support Flutter Web in the main toolchain, rather than having a separate build. This makes the build process a lot more straightforward. However, they have not yet had a full release with new Flutter Web interface, so the Docker build is technically not hermetic (because it always loads the Flutter master branch). This also means we download Flutter twice. I'll need to fix that once they have a proper release to use.

See: https://flutter.dev/docs/get-started/web

Outside of build changes, I had to update the `flutter_web` imports to be `flutter`. This should also unblock UI testing of Flutter if I ever get around to it. There were a couple new warnings about usages of `new` which I fixed as well.

I also realized that `flutter packages upgrade` actually updates all packages to their latest versions. I actually wanted `flutter packages get` which pulls all the listed dependencies without modifying them. Testing with `pub run test` also no longer works because it can't find the Flutter SDK. Fixed this invoking it from Flutter with `flutter packages pub run test`.

This breaks the old monolithic server build and I didn't want to keep maintaining it so I just deleted the root Dockerfile. This will likely also break Kubernetes rollouts, and I'm just being lazy about it.

README.md, after:

# Chatter

Chat application built with a Go server and Flutter client.

A running instance is available at [http://chatter.technology/](http://chatter.technology/),
hosted on [Google Cloud Platform](https://cloud.google.com/) w/
[Google Domains](https://domains.google.com).

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/dgp1130/chatter.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/dgp1130/chatter)

## Motivation

Just having some fun with a simple project. Wanted to play around with
Go channels and this seems like a relatively straightfowarded way of
doing that. Also wanted to play around more with Flutter, can try out
their new web technical preview at the same time for the client.

## Development

To actually run the server:

### Install Dependencies

To run the project, you'll need:

* [Git](https://git-scm.com) (or you could download the zip, but who does that?)
* [Docker](https://docker.com)
* [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) with
  [Minikube](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/learning-environment/minikube/)

### Dev Dependencies

If you want to develop with an editor that understands the project, you'll
probably also want:

* [Go Lang](https://golang.org)
* [Flutter](https://github.com/flutter/flutter)

### Get the Source Code

```bash
git clone https://github.com/dgp1130/chatter .
```

### Run the entire Kubernetes service locally

This service is configured to be deployed with Kubernetes. Individual microservices have their own
README files which describe how to run/debug/test them. The entire Kubernetes configuration can be
tested locally by starting up the entire service:

```bash
# Start Minikube environment.
minikube start
eval $(minikube docker-env)

# Build services.
docker build -f services/frontend/Dockerfile -t chatter-frontend-service:latest .
docker build -f services/rooms/Dockerfile -t chatter-rooms-service:latest .

# Apply Kubernetes configuration while only using local images.
kubectl apply -f k8s.yaml --image-pull-policy=Never

# Open app in browser.
minikube service chatter

# Stop Kubernetes.
kubectl delete service/chatter deployment.apps/chatter
minikube stop
```

### Local development

An editor like Visual Studio Code won't use Intellisense based on the Docker build.
You'll need to build the project locally (outside of Docker) for many editor features to work.

```bash
# Build client manually.
(cd client && flutter build web)

# Test client.
# Note: This only runs non-UI tests because Flutter Web testing isn't well supported atm.
(cd client && flutter packages pub run test)

# Run server manually.
go run server/server.go

# Test server.
go test ./...
```
